Lisl come Frank Abagnale
hello hi welcome you you have you have
long ago served your sentence after
swindling your way to 2.4 million
dollars and you were in your teens yeah
and as far as I understand you had a
happy childhood and and then I wonder
how what made you that one of the
greatest con men in modern history well
I had a great childhood and I was
actually one of four children in the
movie they said I was an only child but
I was one of four children I was a
middle child when I was 16 years old and
I was in the tenth grade I went to a
Catholic school my parents decided to
get a divorce and I remember the priest
having the brother take me out of class
and drive me up to the County Courthouse
where they told me I would see my
parents they would explain what was
going on and it was a family court and
the next thing I knew in a matter of a
couple hours I was standing in front of
a judge with my parents on either side
of me at judge's saying that my parents
were getting a divorce and because I was
16 years old I had to choose which
parent I wanted to live with I couldn't
really make that choice so I turned and
ran out of the courtroom the judge
called for a 10-minute recess but by the
time my parents got outside I was gone
so my mother never saw me again for
about seven years till I was 21 my
father never saw me again ever so he
just ran away yep you couldn't deal with
that No and then you ran to run away to
New York I ran away to New York and this
is back in the 1960s when a lot of kids
in America ran away but that got into
Haight Ashbury the hippie scene the drug
scene I ended up in New York City I had
no money so I first thing I thought is
how am I going to survive and I was very
fortunate that I looked older for my age
I always had a little gray hair I looked
a little older people always thought I
was older so I decided to lie about my
age on my driver's license which back
then didn't have a photo on it was an
IBM card and I was actually born in 1948
so I dropped the four and made it a
three and that made me ten years older
or 26 years old my father had opened a
checking account for me when I was about
14 eventually the money ran out so I
kept writing the checks and
the police started looking for me for
the bad checks they started looking for
me as the run away from home and so I
thought it to think I needed to get out
of New York City and but I was afraid if
I went to Miami or Chicago they might
not cash a check for me on a New York
license or in Chicago or so on so this
is when you come up with the pilot idea
yes and all these were just ideas that
happened out of the shared moment I was
walking up the 42nd Street in New York I
saw an airline crew come out of a hotel
and I thought to myself if I could get
one of those uniforms then I could go in
the bank and they'd cash a cheque for me
without question and so it started out
as simply the uniform to get the uniform
so that when I went in a bank they
wouldn't question me about my check how
do you get the uniform from from this
was from the Pan Am okay am i had I had
a line company I the next day I saw the
Pan Am building and so that gave me the
idea of Pan Am and then I the next day
called Pan Am's corporate headquarters
and when they answered the switchboard I
really had no idea what I was going to
say but I asked to speak to someone in
purchasing and when they came on I asked
them if told them that I was a pilot
that I had flown in last night but I had
sent my uniform out to be dry-cleaned
and now the hotel and the cleaner can't
find it so he said well don't you have
an extra uniform I said yes back in San
Francisco where I'm based I don't have
one here he said well this is going to
cost you the price of any uniform and I
said that's fine so he said you need to
go down to the well-built uniform
company and I'll call them and let you
know that you're coming but that's
exactly what I wanted to know they could
fit you in yeah I went down and put the
uniform on was a black Aberdeen uniform
with the three gold stripes and the gray
hair and I remember that the gentleman
said to me I said well how much do I owe
you for the uniform he said 286 dollars
I said no problem I write you a check
you never actually flew a plane never
flew and you know everything I did it
first started out I'll get this uniform
I'll write checks then I found out that
you can actually ride in planes as a
pilot in the jump seat so then I flew
around the world for free by simply
riding on other airlines in the jump
seat so by the time I was 18 I had
logged over a million miles boarded 260
commercial aircraft in 26 countries
around the world by just riding around
as that but what we need to pilots
understand from the conversation then
you weren't a pilot no because all they
say is the same thing over and over
again so once you learn the jargon
they've got the same questions on the
taxi out where you based how long you've
been flying what position do you fly
you've pretty much picked up on that
pretty quick and after a while it's just
doing it so many times it became a
routine and of course this is back in
the days before terrorism before
hijackings and bombings and so there was
really no security at the airport so no
one really suspected that someone would
pose as a pilot but then when I would
get to a city I would go to the hotel
where the crew stayed I'd spend two or
three nights in the airline would be
billed from my room and my meal so I had
my travel and my meals covered yeah but
later later on you posed as a doctor
also before you were 20 yes when at that
18 the FBI started looking for me and
the police were looking for me so I
decided to hang up the uniform and I had
a lot of money so I moved to Atlanta
Georgia and I moved in an apartment
complex and I was filling out the
application and it had many questions
for a teenage boy one of them was
occupation I almost wrote down airline
pilot but the next question said
employed by supervisors named so I
thought to myself I'm gonna have to come
up with something that would be
impossible to check out yet something
that would justify why you drive an
expensive car wear expensive clothes
don't work much so I wrote down the word
doctor and it had a very inquisitive
apartment manager she said oh I see who
you're a doctor I said yes ma'am what
type of doctor are you well I'm a I'm a
medical doctor and so she then asked me
what type of medical doctor and because
it was a singles complex
I felt pediatrician was pretty safe so I
I moved in but I did actually meet a
real doctor in the house in the
apartment complex and I started going to
Emory University to read up on the
things that were in the medical journals
from the Mayo Clinic and the John
hoppers you'd be able to talk to be able
to have a conversation because he was
all would turned the conversation to
medicine and eventually they asked me if
I would cover a shift at the hospital
because someone had gotten ill and I
thought it was a challenge to try so I
went up to the hospital for a couple of
weeks and opposed did you it did you did
you actually examine people no because I
was only reason I did it it was because
I wasn't licensed supposably licensed in
Georgia where I was living only in
California lies that I was from they
gave me a temporary certificate which
allowed me to be in an administrative
capacity but not to treat anybody and
plus I didn't like the sight of blood so
I hated to be called down to the
emergency room because I didn't like to
see anybody bleeding so you know so it
wasn't something I wanted to do for a
long time did you find well while doing
these things that you described here now
did you find it thrilling
it started out for me as survival how am
I going to survive I'm a kid in New York